FC Barcelona have been crowned LaLiga champions for the 25th time after recording a 4-2 win over Deportivo La Coruna,with Lionel Messi netting a hat-trick on the night.

Barca needed just a point to clinch the league they have dominated for the duration of the season, while Deportivo's top-flight status was on the line.

The visitors got the ball rolling in the sixth minute after Ousmane Dembele crossed to Phillipe Coutinho, who obliged with a stunning top-corner finish.

Depor thought they had pulled level later soon after but Lucas Perez’s goal was correctly ruled as offside by the match officials.

Coutinho looked to get his brace after the 20-minute mark with a low-cut curler from outside the box, but it went wide.

Lionel Messi stepped forward for free-kick 12 metres from the box and forced a stunning one-handed tip from Ruben on 29 minutes.

After coming close to getting on the scoresheet, Deportivo fell behind for the second time after Messi lashed home a first-time volley past Ruben on 38 minutes.

The hosts responded two minutes later after Perez slotted in the bottom corner following a cross from the left by Borja.

The champions-elect continued their pursuit for more goals in the second half, and Messi went close with a low shot that Ruben saved easily.

On 63 minutes, the tie was level pegging after Emre Colak beat Marc Andre Ter Stegen with a low shot following a cross from the left.

Suarez controlled a cut back on the wing and after evading a defender but fired into the side-netting on 76 minutes before he missed another clear opportunity after combining with Messi on 80 minutes.

The Argentine took matters in his own hands and he was the difference maker once more, popping up in the box to convert the third after quick inter-play with Suarez.

Messi completed his hat-trick with five minutes to go off more inter-play with Suarez through the box before slotting past Ruben.

A late flurry saw a close-range shot from Gerard Pique, who ventured in unfamiliar territory up front, saved by Ruben, leaving Barca to clinch a 25th title with three games to go and their unbeaten record still intact, while Deportivo are relegated from the Spanish top flight.
